Annotate-Book
Written by Andrew Plotkin
This source code is in the public domain.

This is the template mechanism I used for Draco Concordans, my annotation
website for _The Dragon Waiting_ (John M. Ford): http://eblong.com/draconc/

I am providing this because somebody asked, not because I think it will
be useful.

It is creaky, overspecialized code -- but on the other hand, it's
completely undocumented! I'm afraid I can't help you with any of it. I
really don't remember how it works myself. A more sensible move would
be to take a standard Python templating library and build a new system
from scratch.

* Quick overview:

To run:

    python annotate.py

The ./output directory will be filled in with the generated HTML output.
This source repository has the ./output directory already filled in. So
if you run the script again, the output won't change. But if you tweak
the templates or the topic files, and run the script, you'll see ./output
update.

The ./lib directory contains the template files.

- *.zml: HTML templates.
- all.css: Stylesheet (copied verbatim to ./output).
- chapters: A list of chapters, the page number each starts at, and the
  chapter title.
- topics: A list of letters at which to divide the alphabet. (The first
  must be A.) In the example, we'll have topic pages A-E, F-K, L-Q, R-Z.
- trytopics: A list of topics to mention under "Want to jump in?" on
  the front page.
- frames: Identifiers and names for special quote-boxes. The examples
  "md" and "eng" correspond with the stylesheet entries "FrameMD" and
  "FrameENG".

The ./lib/src directory contains topics and page references, one per
file. These are written in a crude markup language which is, like the
rest of this system, not documented. Here's what I remember:

If the file begins with a page number ("p3") and a topic name in curly
braces, it's a page reference. Otherwise it's a topic. Page numbers can
be fractional ("p3.5") to ensure proper ordering when two different
ones occur on a page.

Anything in square brackets is a link. A slash ("[xxx/Exes]") means that
the first part is a topic or ref name (the filename), the second part is
the human-readable name to display for the link. Two colons ("[::foo]")
means that *this* topic should appear in the named topic as a "see also".

Two colons at the beginning of a line (":: 60") means that this topic
is mentioned on that page.


